# A Day in the Life of an Ethical Hacker
> 11.11.2023
---

**A Pentesters Day to Day**
- Perform an Assessment
- Write a Report 
- Give a Debrief
- Talk about our findings

**Assessment: External Network Pentest**
- Assessing an organization's security from outside the network, property.
- Focuses heavily on OSINT (Opensource Intelligence) / Collect data that might be beneficial.
- Lasts about 32-40 hours for Pentest + 6-16 hours for report. Depends on the scope.

**Assessment: Internal Network Pentest**
- Assessing an organization's security from inside the network, property.
- Focuses heavily on Active Directory.
- Lasts about 32-40 hours for Pentest + 8-16 hours for report. Depends on the scope.

**Assessment: Web Application Pentest**
- Assessing an organization's web app / web server.
- Focuses heavily on web based attacks and the [OWASP](https://owasp.org)
- Focuses on wireless attacks. Depends on the wireless type that is being used (WPA2-PSK vs WPA2 Enterprise)
- Lasts about 4-8 hours per SSID. 2-4 hours for report.

**Assessment: Physical Pentest & Social Engineering**
- Assessing an organization's physical security aka social engineering(break into the building, picking locks, cloning tags, social engineering).  Fishing campaign, Smithing campaign (Social Engineering) Depends on the client.
- Focuses on task and goals from the client.
- Lasts about 16-40 hours. 4-8 for report. Depends on the engagement.

**Other Assessments**
- Mobile Pentesting
- IOT (Internet of things) Pentesting
- Red Team Engagement
- Purple Team Engagement
- ETC.

**Report Writing**
- Delivered withing a week after the engagement (Depends)
- Report should be non technical and technical findings
- Recommendations for remediation should be clear to both executives and technical staff. (It should be very clear!). Also write how you got in and how one could patch it.

**Debrief**
- A walkthrough through the report and finding. Can be with someone technical or non technical staff
- Gives opportunity for the client to ask questions and concerns before the final report is released.