# Functions
> 14.11.2023
---

**Function Definition:**
A function is *defined* using the `def` keyword, followed by the *function name, parentheses, and a colon*. The function may also have *parameters (optional)* and a *return statement (optional)* to send back a result. Here's an example of a simple function definition:

```python
def greet():
    print("Hello, World!")
```

**Function Call:**
To execute a function, you need to *call it by its name*, followed by parentheses. Here's an example of calling the `greet()` function:

```python
greet()
```

**Function Parameters:**
Functions *can accept parameters*, which are variables that hold values passed to the function when it is called. Parameters allow you to *customize the behavior* of a function based on the values you provide. Here's an example of a function with parameters:

```python
def greet(name):
    print("Hello, " + name + "!")
```

In the example above, the `greet()` function accepts a parameter named `name`. When the function is called with an argument, such as "Alice", *the value is assigned* to the `name` parameter within the function body.

**Return Statement:**
Functions can also *return values* using the `return` statement. The returned value can be *assigned to a variable* or used directly in expressions. Here's an example:

```python
def add_numbers(a, b):
    return a + b

result = add_numbers(3, 4)
print(result)  # Output: 7
```

In this example, the `add_numbers()` function takes two parameters (a and b) and *returns their sum*. The returned value is then assigned to the `result` variable and printed.

Functions provide a way to *encapsulate reusable code* and *improve the structure*of your programs. They can take inputs, perform computations, and produce outputs, allowing you to *modularize your code* and make it more efficient and maintainable.

**Example:**
```python
#Functions
print("Here is an example function:")

def who_am_i():  # this is a function without parameters
    name = "Heath"
    age = 30  # local variable
    print("My name is " + name + " and I am " + str(age) + " years old.")

who_am_i()

# adding parameters
def add_one_hundred(num):
    print(num + 100)

add_one_hundred(100)

# multiple parameters
def add(x, y):
    print(x + y)

add(7, 7)

def multiply(x, y):
    return x * y

multiply(7, 7)
print(multiply(7, 7))

def square_root(x):
    print(x ** 0.5)

square_root(64)

def nl():
    print('\n')

nl()
```